Welcome to Don't Repeat Yourself
with Functions! In this lecture we are going to be understanding something
called The Dry Principle. What this means is that you don't repeat
yourself, and this allows us to take all of that horrible repetitive code
and make it this short, and we're going to be doing this
by learning how to write our own methods, as well as learning how to call
methods and giving you, basically, an introduction to refactoring as a whole. This is
a very crucial crucial skill for programmers, so see you in there!
So far, the code is working fine, and we're able
to play the game! So we're very very nearly there, but that's not quite
the end of the game, because for you, as a programmer, you need to know
how to keep your code maintainable. And by that I mean, in the
future, when you come back to your code and you want to make modifications, you've got to make sure
it's easy to make those modifications, and at the moment, it really isn't easy to make
those modifications. You've also got to think about working in a bigger team, and somebody's
going to come along and want to change something and you've got to make it easy for that
to happen. Now why do I say it's not easy for that, at
the moment? Because we've got a lot of repetition. So here
there lines of code are almost identical, which means if I want to
go and change the message that gets printed, for the "Distance
to home: ", I have to change that in four places. You know, any of
these modifications are going to require a lot of typing, and
this is why, in general as a programmer, we want to follow what's called
The Dry Principle. Now, what does The Dry Principle stand for?
It stands for Don't Repeat Yourself. So
this basically means that you shouldn't have code like
this, you shouldn't have what's known as WET code like this, and
WET actually stands for Write Everything Twice. And in principle, you write
things more than twice, but that is the two acronyms that you
want to remember. DRY code is the good sort of code, WET code is the bad
sort of code, and WET code is what we currently have, where everything is written
twice or more than twice, in our case, it's written four times! So
we want to find a way to avoid all this repetition!
Now the main tool that we have in our arsenal against
WET code is methods. Now these factories,
basically, can be used to take those repeated operations and
turn them into one method, which we can pass variables into
and get variables out of and essentially just do
that one thing in one place and write that code once.
Now, how do we do that? We've seen some methods
before. We've seen void, we've seen Update (), but none of these
have been quite what we understand by this. So let me just give you
an example of how we might choose to take some code that already
exists, multiple times, and turn it into a method. So
one example is if we have an averaging
operation. So I have a variable, I'll
call it an int, and, in fact, let's make it a
float, so that it can have like half values and stuff.
So I want to say average 1 is =
to 2 + 3
over 2. So this, /, does
division and our, +, addition operations and
produces an average value, and then, I want to print it out, say
like so.
That's all well and good! So far so good, we haven't
repeated anything. And I've used the wrong quotes, so I'm going to change that!
So we haven't repeated anything, but say I
write this out again. I have like a float
average 2 =, and here we're going to put
something like (5 + 10), so different numbers but I'm still
going to average them out, OK. And then I
want to print it out, so average 2.
In fact, I can just... Oops, I can just remove the
average 2 altogether, so I'm even using the same message, so this is
really quite repeated code, average 2. I put my semicolon on
the end. Now if I hit play, let's just check this works!
Yes, so now we have our 2 averages,
2 and 7 popping out here. You'll notice
that they are coming out a little bit weird. Now, the reason for that is because
these are integers and this is an integer, and so what
actually happens, when we do a division, is an integer division.
You can tell this by just hovering over it,
it gives us some indication that, indeed, we've got integers on the left and the
right, so we've got an integer division. An integer division, as you can
see here, leaves us with the rounded value, rather than the actual
value. So let's go ahead and correct that, by essentially putting
f on the end. If we put f on the end of these, then they become floating points,
and so, if you look at it, there you go we've got
the floating point division happening. So I'm just going to go
dig through one of these,
and let's hit play again and just check our average. Now, we're getting
2.5. So this is correct, we are working out averages. But obviously,
if I wanted to change the message and the way it's being printed or if I wanted
to change the way that I'm calculating the average, for whatever reason, if I wanted
to weight the average, for example, I wanted this one to be twice as important as this
one, then that's going to be hard to do that in both places.
So what we want to do is create a method
that is responsible for doing exactly this. How do we do that?
Well the first step is to identify the bits of
the code that are similar and the bits that are different. So
far, we can see that, pretty much, it's identical except for
these two numbers in here, we can see that, in both cases, these
two numbers are different. So what we need to do is
create variables that store those two numbers, and that
starts to make obvious how we can take this code out.
So I'm going to say float x = 2f
and float y = 3f,
like so. Then, I
can say x and y in here, so I've
replaced those values with variables.
That's the first step, replacing the values with variables. Then, I can
turn this into a method. Now, how does that look? So
we know that if we don't have a return value our return
value is void, like we're seeing with the Start (), and also, you can see that we've got empty
brackets, that's because the Start () has no arguments. But we're going to have some
arguments, so we're going to create a new function
which... Let's have a look! What's it return? Well out of here,
out of this block, there's no variables that we want to use later on. We never use
average 1 again, so our return value is going to be void.
There's nothing that comes out of this factory. However,
what goes into this factory? We notice that x and y, these two variables
we just created to into the factory, and they're both of type float. So
let's give the first... We need to give it a method name, so the name to this factory,
well I think I'm going to call it Average.
And you can see that the convention is to start with a capital letter
for the method names. Then, in brackets I need to put
the type and the type name
of the argument, and we make a list of
these arguments, like so. And then, in
these curly brackets we can cut and paste this
code here. So I'm going to cut that out, paste it in here,
and you can see it automatically works, because
this code now refers to the arguments.
And it doesn't pass anything out of this function, so we have a void;
there's nothing returned from the factory.
Now here, I can replace that code that I just cut and pasted
into the method, with a call to the method itself. So I can just say
Average(x, y), like so.
And in fact, I no longer need these variables,
but they allowed us to see what was necessary,
what was variable inside this code.
So I'm going to just paste these back
in and remove the variables entirely, just use the values
again. And now,
this repeated block of code, I can simply, I don't have
to repeat that whole process again, all I have to do is call that method
with those variables. So it's 5 and 10, so I'm going to say Average
(5, 10), and you'll
notice a nice little side effect is that I don't have to put the f on the end, because the argument
is automatically of type float.
So if we play to check,
you notice that, indeed... I'll just clear and show
you that this is being calculated afresh. Indeed we have the average
being calculated here, 2.5 and 7.5. And
so that code does exactly the same thing, except now we aren't having to repeat
ourselves, we're just calling Average() in two different places.
So that's exactly the process we are going to want to do
with these blocks of code. You can see that these blocks are the repeated
blocks and that some part of these repeated blocks
is the variable we want to take out. So these are
the variable bits, that bit there and this
bit here. Everything else is staying exactly the same, between
all of these blocks of code. So that is what we're going to want to turn
into a method. So that is your
challenge, to make your code DRY as possible! I'd like you to create
a new method for the duplicated code. Remember that a method
looks like this. We have a return type, which can be void and probably
will be void, in your case. We have a method name, so use something descriptive for
what this method actually does, what this factory does, and
then, use the list of arguments, the things that you need
to pass in these variables in our repeated
box of code. Then, this is the code that we are
trying to eliminate the repetition for, so give it a descriptive name,
copy in the duplicated code, and ensure
all the arguments are declared and replaced, within that block of code.
So this block of code shouldn't be using, you know, any of those values
that you had before, shouldn't be using any of these values or these values
but instead should be using those variables that you used as
arguments to the method that you're passing into this factory.
And then, replace the duplicated code, so the place is where
all that code is duplicated and there's four places. Replace it with a method,
and remember, this is what a method call looks like. You may not need
to assign the return value to anything, because that
assignment only works if you have something, and if you are returning
void, then you can just call it and that will be enough. So pause the video and have a go
at making your code DRY! This is very good practice! If you get stuck go and
watch the first part of this video again, to see what I did with that averaging function.
And if you're really really stuck, you can carry on and watch the rest of this video, where I'll show you
how to do it, but first, pause and have a go yourself!
OK welcome back! We're going to quickly whiz through this, because you
have seen me do it once before. So this is the block of code
we want to replace. As I said, these are the variables, so I'm
going to create a variable. First the KeyCode, like so,
and we will set that =
to KeyCode.LeftArrow, like
so. Now I can replace that value with the variable, keyCode,
as long as I get the case
right. Because if you change the case, it's referring to this KeyCode,
rather than the variable that I just created. In fact, let's make it
very unambiguous, I'm going to call this kc for short,
for keyCode. And then, we've got this vector here. What
am I going to replace this with?
Well it's the movementVector! That's describes perfectly what it does, and
I'm going to declare a variable of type Vector2 called
movementVector and set it
= to this thing, which I cut out of the value
that I cut out of here. Now this is the block of code that we
want to turn into a method. So let's do that! Just above here, above the Update (),
I'm going to create that code. In fact,
we'll do it below, so that you can read it from higher level of
abstraction to lower level, so if we ask, in Update (), what we're doing
it's very short and easy, and then, we can go down into deeper, more detail.
So, as I said, there's nothing returned down to these blocks of code,
we're not using any of the values created within them, so the return value
should be void. Now, what is this block of code doing? I think it
is essentially checking for movement. And
what are the arguments? Well we've said what the arguments are, they're these two variables here. So
I'm going to say (KeyCode kc, and
movementVector, so Vector2,
movementVector),
like so. Now, with our curly braces,
we can copy and paste or cut and paste this code up here.
So I cut that and paste it in here.
So that works fine! Then, you
can see there's no errors or squiggly lines. I haven't forgotten to replace the variable anywhere.
If you get any squiggly lines, it's probably because you have forgotten to replace the
variable. Then, what we can do is,
as I said, we don't need to have these variables, we can just
call the method, so CheckForMovement(). We need to give it
the values, so I'm going to cut and paste these values in here,
just as a list
of values that can be used by the method.
I can remove the variables now, they already have served their purpose
as an intermediary stage for our refactoring here. And
then, we can say CheckForMovement(), and we can do it for all
these ones down below. So let's do (KeyCode.RightArrow, )
and this vector here,
so I'm going to cut that out and paste it in,
like so. That means I can remove this block of code.
Wow, that's a big block of code to remove! Next up, Check ForMovement,
again, if I can type. CheckForMovement.
And then, this KeyCode, the UpArrow, and
this vector. Let's cut that and paste it in here!
And finally, one more check for movement! Oh yeah, by the way,
I'm done with this block of code. Isn't this getting short? So
CheckForMovement(KeyCode.
DownArrow, ), and then, this hunk.
Let's make sure I'm actually cutting it, and paste it in
there, and finally this chunk of code is gone.
So we have just removed lines and lines of code, while retaining
the exact same functionality. Now, let me prove it to you! Let's go over, clear the
Console, and play, and we should now be
able to move around, just as we did before. And it does seem to be working
flawlessly! Aren't I great! I've managed to refactor all that code
and so have you, and I'm very very proud of you for having been able
to do that! You've finally seen how important keeping your code
DRY is, because now we could just change this message in
one place and everywhere it will be changed, in every case
of the Left, Right, Up, and Down Arrow. So congratulations, you're
starting to see the power of using code in this way,
and in the next lecture, we are going to go even deeper! So I'll see you there!